As I look back at my original blog post on "what is data science," I still agree with everything I said. I still think being a data scientist is about taking large amounts of data and turning it into useful knowledge. I still think the three primary knowledge areas for data science are **coding skills**, math/statistics, and domain knowledge. The difference is that now I know these things on more than just an intellectual level. I have a deeper appreciation for what it takes to do data science well. I've put coding skills in bold because I have a much deeper appreciation for how critical that component is when trying to solve a data science problem.

My knowledge of R has vastly increased while taking this course. Fortunately or unfortunately, this knowledge was earned through difficult struggle. I appreciate the flexibility of R and the wide array of options afforded by its open-source nature. However, I also think this aspect makes it harder for someone who is a relative novice like myself. I liken it to blades vs. cavity backed irons on the golf course. The conventional wisdom is that blades are harder to hit accurately, but if you are a really good golfer, they give you more control. For this reason, most golfers end up hitting the more forgiving cavity back irons. I view R as the blades and myself as a weekend golfer who needs something more forgiving and straightforward. SAS is the cavity backed iron to me--I find it more straight forward to learn and troubleshoot, though an expert may find it less flexible for their needs.

This course has expanded my toolbox of data analysis techniques. Going forward, I will have access to these new tools when I need to solve a problem at work or school. New tools include: decision tress, boosting, bagging, cross-validation, and R shiny. Also, it has expanded my vocabulary of data science topics. I had heard most, if not all, of these terms before but now I actually understand what they mean and how they can be used. That alone will allow me be more effective in my professional life.

This course was very informative and very challenging. It has given me a strong foundation for continued learning in the field of data science.
